`sq` is a type-safe query builder and data mapper for Go. It supports the **SQLite**, **Postgres** and **MySQL** dialects. Among its features are:

- **Type-safety**
    - Every table gets a struct type
    - Every column gets a struct field
    - You no longer have to hardcode tables and columns as raw strings (even [ORMs](https://gorm.io/docs/query.html#Conditions) are guilty of this)
- **Declarative schema as code (provided by the [`ddl`](#) companion package)**
    - The database can be the source of truth: setup your database first, then code generate the table structs from the database.
    - -OR- The table structs can be the source of truth: define your tables declaratively as code (i.e. structs), then generate the necessary DDL needed to migrate the database to your desired state.
    - What is supported: schemas, extensions, enums, functions, tables, columns, constraints, indexes, (materialized) views, triggers
- **Able to utilize Go generics for data fetching**
    - Data fetching uses [callback mapper functions](#)
    - [FetchOne/FetchSlice](#) are generic fetch functions that return whatever the callback mapper function returns
    - As convenient as an ORM, without actually using an ORM
- **Emulates each SQL dialect faithfully**
    - `sq` does not attempt to abstract all SQL dialects into one.
    - Each dialect has its own query builder and can make full use of dialect-specific features.
    - This does not mean that queries are not portable: queries are as portable as the SQL that you write
    - If you stick with a common subset of SQL, queries generated by a Postgres query builder can be used in SQLite/MySQL databases as well ([by simply changing the `Dialect` field](#))
- **Application-side Row Level Security (i.e. multitenancy support)**
    - Queries can be primed with a query context -- a `map[string]interface{}` that can contain anything you want
    - Based on this query context, tables participating in the query that implement the [PredicateInjector](#) interface can inject additional predicates to exclude rows from a SELECT, UPDATE or DELETE.
    - This emulates a huge part of Postgres' [Row Level Security feature](#), but more importantly it plays well with `database/sql`'s connection pooling since variables are set per query and not per session.
    - Plus, SQLite and MySQL get Row Level Security for free!
- **sq ❤ SQL**
    - Multiple schemas, Generated Columns, Full Text Search, JSON, Collations are all par for the course
    - `sq` covers the full lifecycle of SQL in the application: from database definition, to query generation, to data mapping
